Policies
AdSense Program policies
Next: Families
All publishers are required to adhere to the Google Publisher Policies and the following policies, so please read them carefully. If you fail to comply with these policies without permission from Google, we reserve the right to disable ad serving to your site and/or disable your AdSense account at any time. If your account is disabled, you will not be eligible for further participation in the AdSense program.

Because we may change our policies at any time, please check here often for updates. In accordance with our online Terms and Conditions, it's your responsibility to keep up to date with, and adhere to, the policies posted here. Exceptions to these policies are permitted only with authorization from Google.

Publishers may place AdSense code on pages with content in scope of the Google Publisher Restrictions, though this content will likely receive less advertising than other, nonrestricted content.

Expand all Collapse all
Invalid clicks and impressions
Publishers may not click their own ads or use any means to inflate impressions and/or clicks artificially, including manual methods.

Learn more
Clicks on Google ads must result from genuine user interest. Any method that artificially generates clicks or impressions on your Google ads is strictly prohibited. These prohibited methods include, but are not limited to, repeated manual clicks or impressions, automated click and impression generating tools and the use of robots or deceptive software. Please note that clicking your own ads for any reason is prohibited.

Encouraging clicks or views (non-rewarded inventory)
Except for rewarded inventory, publishers may not ask others to click or view their ads or use deceptive implementation methods to obtain clicks or views. This includes, but is not limited to, offering compensation to users for viewing ads or performing searches, promising to raise money for third parties for such behavior or placing images next to individual ads.

Learn more
To ensure a good experience for users and advertisers, publishers participating in the AdSense program may not:

Compensate users for viewing ads or performing searches, or promise compensation to a third party for such behavior.
Encourage users to click the Google ads using phrases such as "click the ads", "support us", "visit these links" or other similar language.
Direct user attention to the ads using arrows or other graphical gimmicks.
Place misleading images alongside individual ads.
Place ads in a floating box script.
Format ads so that they become indistinguishable from other content on that page.
Format site content so that it is difficult to distinguish it from ads.
Place misleading labels above Google ad units. For instance, ads may be labelled "Sponsored Links" or "Advertisements", but not "Favorite Sites" or "Today's Top Offers".
Traffic sources
Google ads may not be placed on pages receiving traffic from certain sources. For example, publishers may not participate in paid-to-click programs, send unwanted emails or display ads as the result of the action of any software application. Also, publishers using online advertising must ensure that their pages comply with Google's Landing Page Quality Guidelines.

Learn more
To ensure a positive experience for Internet users and Google advertisers, sites displaying Google ads may not:

Use third-party services that generate clicks or impressions such as paid-to-click, paid-to-surf, autosurf and click-exchange programs.
Be promoted through unsolicited mass emails or unwanted advertisements on third-party websites.
Display Google ads, search boxes or search results as a result of the actions of software applications such as toolbars.
Be loaded by any software that can trigger pop-ups, redirect users to unwanted websites, modify browser settings or otherwise interfere with site navigation. It is your responsibility to ensure that no ad network or affiliate uses such methods to direct traffic to pages that contain your AdSense code.
Receive traffic from online advertising unless the site complies with the spirit of Google's Landing Page Quality Guidelines. For instance, users should easily be able to find what your ad promises.
Ad behavior
Publishers are permitted to make modifications to the AdSense ad code so long as those modifications do not artificially inflate ad performance or harm advertisers. Please see modification of the AdSense ad code for more information.

Ad placement
Publishers are encouraged to experiment with a variety of placements and ad formats. However, AdSense code may not be placed in inappropriate places such as pop-ups, emails or software. Publishers must also adhere to the policies for each product used. Please see our ad placement policies article for more information.

View full ad placement policies.
Google ads, search boxes or search results may not be:

Integrated into a software application (does not apply to AdMob) of any kind, including toolbars.
Displayed in pop-ups or pop-unders, including where a page containing Google ads, search boxes, or search results is loaded in a pop-up or pop-under.
Placed inside emails, or on pages where email messages are the primary focus.
Placed on screens where private communication is the primary focus of the page.
Placed on any non-content-based page. (Does not apply to AdSense for search or mobile AdSense for search.)
Placed on pages published specifically for the purpose of showing ads.
Placed on pages whose content or URL could confuse users into thinking it is associated with Google due to the misuse of logos, trademarks or other brand features.
Placed on, within or alongside other Google products or services in a manner that violates the policies of that product or service.
Placed on pages that frame content. Framing content is when a site or app displays someone’s else site within a frame or window without permission from the owners of that content. 
Site behavior
Sites showing Google ads should be easy for users to navigate. Sites may not change user preferences, redirect users to unwanted websites, initiate downloads, include malware or contain pop-ups or pop-unders that interfere with site navigation.

Deceptive site navigation
Publishers may not use deceptive implementation methods that place ads in a way that might be mistaken for menu, navigation or download links to obtain clicks or views. Keep in mind that every publisher is responsible to ensure that their ad implementation adheres to the ad placement policies.

This includes, but is not limited to:

False claims of streaming content, or downloads
Linking to content that doesn’t exist
Redirecting users to irrelevant, or misleading webpages
Other types of navigation that is designed to intentionally mislead users
Pages where ads are implemented in placements that are intuitively meant for navigation.
Technical requirements for web content viewing frames for apps
App developers who want to monetize by publishing AdSense and Ad Manager display ads through a web content viewing frame must use one of the following integration options:

WebView API for Ads
App developers are encouraged to integrate the WebView API for Ads to register WebView instances (Android: WebView, iOS: WKWebView) with Google Mobile Ads SDK.

developer documentationLearn more in the developer documentation for Androidand iOS.

AdMob and Ad Manager in-app ads may be shown in an app next to a WebView as long as the Google Mobile Ads SDK is in use and the publisher is compliant with all other relevant program policies and guidelines.

As a reminder, content in the WebView is subject to the same content policy requirement as when it is in a browser.
Other supported viewing frames:
Android: Chrome Custom Tabs and Trusted Web Activities
iOS: SFSafariViewController (iOS9 and iOS10 only)
Sensitive events
A "Sensitive Event" is an unforeseen event or development that creates significant risk to Google's ability to provide high quality, relevant information and ground truth, and reduce insensitive or exploitative content in prominent and monetized features. During a sensitive event, we may take a variety of actions to address these risks.

Product-specific policies
AdMob
AdSense for search
Last updated: August 16, 2024


Give feedback about this article

Before you sign up
Make sure your site's pages are ready for AdSense
Next: Eligibility requirements for AdSense
For your site to succeed with AdSense, it needs to have unique content that's relevant to your visitors and provides a great user experience.

Before you sign up for AdSense, we recommend you review your pages to ensure they are in good shape:

What's special about your pages?
Do your pages have clear, easy-to-use navigation?
Do your pages have unique and interesting content?
Ready for AdSense?
Check out the AdSense site approvals video series for more information.
What's special about your pages?
With lots of sites out there already, you’ll want to create unique, original, and relevant content that keeps users engaged and encourages them to read more.

Consider the arrangement of the elements (text, images, etc.) on your pages. Make sure that your layout is inviting and helps visitors to easily find what they're searching for. Check out this post on the AdSense blog for tips: Refining your website’s user experience in 3 steps.
Consider providing a comment section for your visitors. Feedback from users who've used your site and read your content can really help you to improve your site as it grows.
Note: You'll need to moderate your comment section so it stays compliant with the AdSense Program policies and free from inappropriate content. Learn more about user-generated content and how to manage it.
Do your pages have clear, easy-to-use navigation?
An accessible, easy-to-use navigation bar (or menu bar) is a key part of providing a good user experience. When building your navigation bar, consider:

Alignment - are all the elements lined up correctly?
Readability - is the text easy to read?
Functionality - do your drop-down lists work correctly?
Examples:

Depending on your site, your navigation bar might appear like one of the following:

Example of site navigation

Ultimately, your navigation bar should help users quickly understand how to interact with your site. 

Learn more about our user experience guidelines, refer to employing a clear structure to guide users.

Do your pages have unique and interesting content?
Valuable and original content is paramount to building a strong and loyal user base. When users enjoy your content, they share the experience with others, and this in turn helps you to grow your site.

For tips and advice, check this post on the AdSense blog: Creating outstanding website content in 3 steps.
You need to take care when using external resources such as articles on other sites or embedded videos. It's really important that you contribute your own original content, whether it's specialist knowledge, improvement ideas, reviews, or your personal thoughts.

As stated in the Google Publisher Policies, Google ads may not be placed on sites with scraped or copyrighted content. This is a policy violation and could lead to you having your ads disabled or your account closed.

Learn more good practices for your site, refer to Spam policies for Google web search.

Ready for AdSense?
When you're happy with your answers to these questions, you can sign up for AdSense.


Give feedback about this article
Next: Eligibility requirements for AdSense
Was this helpful?YesNo